---
title: Dayu Li's Resume
date: 2099-01-01

---

**Email:** ldy@bu.edu | ldyuu0220@gmail.com | **Phone:** (1) 857-205-7980

---

## EDUCATION

**Boston University**  
_MA, US_  
**Master of Science (M.S.) in Computer Science**  
09/2023 – 01/2025
**GPA:** 3.71/4.0  
**Relevant Courses:** Distributed System, Stream System, Machine Learning, Graduate Algorithms, Object-oriented Software Design, Mobile Appilication Development, Data Science Tools and Applications, Computational Fabrication

**Chongqing University**  
_Chongqing, China_  
**Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) in Software Engineering**  
09/2019 – 06/2023  
**GPA:** 3.34/4.0  
**TOEFL:** 103 (L28, S23, R30, W22)  
**GRE:** 329 (V 159, Q 170, AW 3.0)  
**Honors:** Excellent Scholarship of 2021-2022, Third Prize (Top 15%)  
**Relevant Courses:** Linear Algebra, Discrete Mathematics, Object-Oriented Programming, Data Structures and Algorithms, Database, Operating Systems, Computer Networks, Intro to Software Engineering, Software Requirement Analysis, Web Development, Computer Graphics, Intro to Artificial Intelligence, Intro to Data Science, Intro to Computer Security

---

## PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCES

### Sharded Distributed Key-Value Store with OmniPaxos Consensus (Go) 
_Sept 2024 – Dec 2024_  
- Designed and implemented a distributed sharded key-value store (KVS) in Go, leveraging the OmniPaxos consensus protocol to ensure linearizability and fault tolerance.
- Developed a fault-tolerant shard controller to manage dynamic shard assignments and configuration changes across multiple replica groups.
- Enabled shard migration with RPC-based data transfers, ensuring consistent data availability during reconfigurations.
- Conducted comprehensive benchmarking on CloudLab, evaluating system performance under static and dynamic workloads.
- Analyzed latency and throughput trade-offs, visualizing results with Matplotlib to identify optimization opportunities.

### Dreamcatcher: Mobile Application for Dream Recording and Analysis (Kotlin, Jetpack Compose)
*Sept 2024 – Dec 2024*

- Developed a mobile application using Jetpack Compose to enable users to record and analyze their dreams.
- Integrated Hugging Face and OpenAI APIs for natural language processing, dream analysis, and image generation.
- Built a dream gallery feature to visualize and organize dream images generated by the application.
- Implemented Google Sign-In for seamless user authentication and account management.
- Integrated device location services to enable nearby therapist search for users experiencing negative emotions.


### 3D Printed Sleep Mask Project  
_Feb 2024 – Jun 2024_  
- Utilized 3D scanning and computational design to create customizable sleep masks tailored to individual facial features.  
- Developed facial landmark detection algorithms and automated 2D mask prototyping using Python.  
- Fabricated masks using TPU 92a for optimal flexibility, durability, and comfort.  
- Conducted user testing to evaluate comfort, light coverage, and flexibility, achieving high satisfaction through a user-centered design process.  

### Stream System Course Project: Experiment on Flink Recovery Time  
_Feb 2024 – Jun 2024_  
- Led a complex experiment analyzing Apache Flink's recovery mechanisms in a simulated production environment.
- Engineered a robust distributed system architecture using 4 TaskManagers, integrating Flink with Hadoop's distributed file system to enhance state management and fault tolerance.
- Implemented sophisticated workload management using Kafka to simulate real-world data ingestion scenarios, adjusting input rates and payloads to evaluate Flink’s throughput and latency metrics under stress.
- Applied the Nexmark benchmarking suite to quantitatively measure the impact of various configurations on Flink's recovery time, checkpointing behavior, and overall performance efficiency.
- Synthesized research findings into strategic insights, delivering a comprehensive presentation that outlined potential improvements in streaming application deployment and scalability.
- Contributions informed best practices in stream processing setup, optimizing checkpoint strategies, and parallel processing techniques that significantly reduce downtime and resource consumption.

### Boston 311 Animal-Related Data Analysis  
_Feb 2024 – Jun 2024_  
- Analyzed Boston's 311 service requests data to identify trends and patterns related to animal-related incidents.
- Employed data cleaning and preprocessing techniques to handle large datasets efficiently.
- Conducted exploratory data analysis to uncover significant insights, including seasonal trends and geographical distribution of incidents.
- Visualized findings using various data visualization tools, making complex data easily understandable for stakeholders.
- Provided actionable recommendations to improve city services and responsiveness to animal-related issues based on data-driven insights.

### Intelligent Student Behavior Analysis System for Real Classrooms  
_Mar 2022 – Jun 2022_  
- Co-developed an intelligent student behavior analysis system with main functions including student info management (for teachers), real-time image data transmission and visualization, face recognition, and behavior analysis on the monitoring side.
- Designed the UI with PyQt, built a framework to interact with the database with Django, conducted face feature extraction based on Dlib Library and Perspective-n-Point (PnP) face pose computation to judge the students' class state.

### Intelligent Optimization Method for Steel Mill Production Scheduling Integration  
_Apr 2021 – May 2022_  
- Created a steel mill production scheduling model system with a visual function that can be practically used to realize the optimal allocation of production resources.
- Studied different algorithms that help conduct simulations on the modeling of production systems, including Lagrangian Relaxation, Cross-Entropy, and Differential Evolution.
- Worked on the software function architecture and modular implementation technology, applied the Ant Colony Optimization (ACO) algorithm during the data mining process.
- Performed offline testing and refinement of models and solution algorithms using the actual production performance data of the steel mill.

### Book Shopping System Development  
_Jul 2021_  
- Individually developed a web-based book shopping system with front-end and back-end interconnection, which meets the book purchasing needs of different groups.
- Implemented both database design and user requirement analysis, which realized various user requirements such as book display, top sales presentation, shopping cart design, member management, and order management.
- Optimized the UI by using up-to-date front-end techniques.

### Data-based Analysis on Music Evolution and Revolutions  
_Feb 2021_  
- Co-developed a model that measures musical influence, examined evolutionary and revolutionary trends of artists and genres in a data-visualized way.
- Created a multiple directed network of musical influencers, designed the AET (AHP-Entropy & weigh-Topsis) method to quantitatively analyze the musical influence of each artist.
- Developed a similarity percentage measurement model to find out the relationship of genre and similarity which achieved normalization well and avoid errors caused by the difference of orders of magnitude in the calculation process.

---

## INTERNSHIP

### Zhejiang Dayun IOT Technology Co., Ltd.  
_Aug 2022_  
**Web Development Intern**  
- Worked on the mountain-rescue project of the company, programmed the front-end with HTML + JavaScript, applied SpringBoot + MybatisPlus framework to reproduce the back-end interface of login, user information, and token verification module.
- Used the virtual machine to create and configure the server's database and remote storage, deployed the image of the back-end code and published the web page, so that the above modules can be effectively used in the local area network.

### Zhejiang Leapmotor Technology Co., Ltd.  
_Jul 2021 – Aug 2021_  
**Intern of Big Data Department**  
- Conducted data extraction and data filtering based on user requirements, created business-related reports such as equity distribution agreements for users.
- Punctuated the coordinates on the map based on the vehicle information in the database, created the heat map of the company's vehicle location in a data-visualized way, which was successfully launched in the official system.
- Collaborated on optimization of the reports and code reviews with colleagues, performed presentations for upper management and other departments.

### Ruankosoft Technologies (WuHan) Co., Ltd.  
_Aug 2020_  
**Game Development Intern**  
- Designed the town maps for the Role Play Game with MFC, realized 5 main functions including user login/registration, game character selection, control of character movement, collision detection between character and background objects, NPC interaction and task distribution, public screen typing, and tips display.

---

## LEADERSHIP & ACTIVITIES

### Vice Leader, Chorus of Chongqing University Art Troupe  
_Sep 2020 – Sep 2022_  
- Organized and led the members to participate in weekly rehearsals, successfully led the team to win the third place in the 2021 Prokofiev International Music Competition and first prize in the 6th Chinese College Students’ Art Exhibition.

---

## OTHER SKILLS

**Computer Languages:** C/C++, Java, Python, SQL, HTML/CSS/JavaScript, Matlab  
**Software & Tools:** Git, IDEA, PyCharm, VSCode, NumPy, PyTorch, Visio, Flink, Kafka, Excel
